# Kishor Sivapalan . Jarvis Consulting

I completed my Bachelor's of Engineering degree in Computer Engineering at York University. Prior to university, I naturally gravitated towards logic and mathematical concepts. Eventually, I was introduced to programming which made me decide that I wanted to be able to solve real world problems using software. This led me down the path to Jarvis. At Jarvis, I learned about agile development practices while I worked with team members to develop software deliverables. I worked on several software development projects such as a Linux/SQL resource monitor, and a Java clone of the "grep" command in Linux using technologies like Docker, Maven, and PostgreSQL databases. In doing these projects, I hope to further my career in either full-stack development or quality assurance testing, with an added interest in project management.

## Skills

**Proficient:** Java, Linux/Bash, RDBMS/SQL, Agile/Scrum, Git, Data Structures

**Competent:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Docker, Maven

**Familiar:** MATLAB, C, Python, Node.js, React

## Jarvis Projects

Project source code: [https://github.com/jarviscanada/jarvis_data_eng_KishorSivapalan](https://github.com/jarviscanada/jarvis_data_eng_KishorSivapalan)


**Cluster Monitor** [[GitHub](https://github.com/jarviscanada/jarvis_data_eng_KishorSivapalan/tree/master/linux_sql)]: Developed and deployed a monitoring agent that periodically records hardware information and resource usage data from a node in a cluster. The design consists of bash scripts that initialize a PostgreSQL database instance generated by Docker, and scripts that record the needed hardware information. Scripts are run on a per-minute basis using crontab automation.

**Core Java Apps** [[GitHub](https://github.com/jarviscanada/jarvis_data_eng_KishorSivapalan/tree/master/core_java)]:
      
  - JDBC App: Developed and Java app that uses the JDBC API and a DAO design pattern to be able to perform CRUD operations on a PostgreSQL database running on a Docker container. Maven was used for dependency management of the app. PSQL client was used to directly access the database and verify integrity of performed operations.
  - Grep App: Developed and deployed a Java app that mimics the functionality of the 'grep' command in Linux. The algorithm consists of a recursive search from a root path to locate the input file; lines that match the user-specified Java regex will be stored into an output file. Maven was used for dependency management of the app. Docker was used to deploy the app to DockerHub.


## Highlighted Projects
**Arm & Leg Robotics for Neuro-Rehabilitation**: Created a design for Arm and Leg Robotics to support Neuro-Rehabilitation. Detailed a Final Documentation which described the product, its purpose, its functions, and the project management aspects of the project. Project was conducted using agile methodologies in a team of 7.

**SmartShoppers System**: Developed a shopping system application using NetBeans IDE; a MySQL server was used for backend development. Detailed a Software Specification document which described the software, its purpose, and its functions. Project was conducted using agile methodlogies in a team of 5.


## Professional Experiences

**Software Developer, Jarvis (2022-Present)**: Designed, tested, and deployed various software projects using Agile and GitFlow methodologies. Other technologies used include: Docker, Maven, Linux/Bash scripting, PostgreSQL, and the IntelliJ IDE. Led and contributed to daily scrum meetings during each sprint cycle. Performed Master Code Review sessions with a senior developer to verify code quality and background knowledge.


## Education
**York University (2015-2020)**, Honours Bachelor of Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering
- GPA: 3.5/4.0


## Miscellaneous
- Sports/Athletics/Fitness
- Competitive/Casual Gaming
- Game Development
- Poker/Chess/Board Games
- Film/TV